To open up the ReadMe there,
close other editors
pull this up and no to dev exercise nine.
Come over here,
we're on exercise nine now.
And login is Kody@remix.run and
Kody loves you, and there we are.
We still have a slow customers experience.
This is exactly what we just finished
with, everything is exactly the same.
So we have the skeleton UI, all of that.
And now what we want to
solve is I want to make it,
so that I can land on this page.
And so, we've moved from slow network
connection to now the back end is slow.
So my network is fine, it's fast.
But we've got a slow back end.
So something on the back end is slow.
And for some reason,
we cannot speed it up.
So there are a couple of things that
you should do when you've got to
slow back end first, make it fast.
[LAUGH] So that we spend a lot of time on
the front end like D bouncing inputs and
whatever to try and
make the user experience not so bad.
When we could just ask the back end
engineers to index the database or
make those requests faster.
So make the slow thing fast first,
and especially those backend things.
So optimize your database queries,
add some caching.
In our case, we actually totally could,
but let's just assume we cannot a caching.
You use a different data source or
whatever we're already concurrently
loading data with promise dot all
we've done all of these things,
we cannot make it faster.
And there are certainly cases like that,
you can't cache it because it's
a completely different calculation
every time, I call it and
it's completely different,
can't cache that thing.
I can't optimize the database queries,
we've hired the best and
they can't make it any faster.
It is slow, that's the way it is.
There are absolutely cases of slow
things that you cannot cache,
you cannot make any faster.
Or again,
everything that you do in software,
you're making trade offs with
the time that you spend.
So you spend time fixing bugs.
Well, now you're making
a trade-off on new features.
You're working on this particular feature
that means you can't work on that feature.
You're always deciding what return or
what thing you can do with your time
to get the better return on investment.
And so maybe it is possible to
speed up your back end, but
maybe it's just not a priority.
It is a sad reality of lots of engineers,
at least are lots of my
experience in enterprise.
Especially is like getting on the priority
list of the other teams that I integrate
with, it's like really can be hard.
And so, wouldn't it be nice if we had some
way to deal with this in a way that gives
our users the best experience possible?
That is what we are going to be doing.
The other thing we have already done,
prefetching, the goberspiners,
the skeleton UI,
we have already done all that.
The next thing that we
could do to make this or
without this new feature that
is coming to remix soon.
So that we're gonna be using
an experimental version of remix actually
here in a sec, but
without this new feature,
what you would have to do
is fetch on the client.
So the reason that this is slow when you
show up here is because we're waiting for
the loader to run and
do all that slow stuff before we
can even render any of the HTML.
Well, if we render HTML and
don't even request the slow stuff,
then this response can come back nice and
fast.
And so that's what the example is.
So if I run node dev example,
clients or whatever it is, there we go,
client-side-fetching.
That's gonna pop up in here,
kody@remix.run and Kody loves you.
And so now if I click on customers,
boom, there I am really fast,
nice and quick,
I get the loading state right away.
If I open it up here, same thing.
So that's the experience
we're looking for, but
there's a big problem with this approach.
First, the problem is and
I'll show you the implementation too,
because it's kind of interesting.
So if we go to examples,
it is customer ID, let's see.
Client, yeah, there we go.
So the way that this works is we have
a fetcher and we have a use effect.
And the fetcher runs on initial mount,
it will load the invoice details for
this particular customer.
So rather than our loader sending
all of the customer info and
its invoice details on that
initial server render.
We actually add this little feature to
our loader to say, hey, if we're actually
specifically requesting the invoice
details, and let's send that instead.
So it's a separate branch of our loader.
So we're kind of hijacking our loader for
our purposes here,
treating our loader kind
of like a resource route.
So in any case, this is a slow bid and
we do this on the client,
we make this request on the client.
So this is still running on the server,
but we make the request for
this when the client hydrates
as part of this use effect.
And when that finishes, then we come
down here, when our fetcher is idle, and
we have data, then we'll render
all of that all right here.
And it works, and it works fine, this is
actually relative to lots of other fetch
on the client solutions
that I've done in the past.
This is actually not all that complicated
because you still get like the server code
is right there and
it's pretty straightforward.
However, the user
experience is suboptimal.
So first of all ,yeah,
I messed that up because I have
two versions of the app running,
I forgot which port this one's on we
are gonna be using this one, okay?
You should figure out a way to stay
logged in, no matter which app you're on,
that would be kind of interesting
to challenge yourself.
Okay, so if we look at the network tab,
this network tab tells you
everything you need to know about
the user's experience when they land
on your site, they're on any site.
So if hit Go, and
actually let's do user lens here after you
deployed a new version of your site or
whatever.
So the cache doesn't work anymore,
you have all new stuff.
So the first thing that you gonna,
that's gonna be a long.
Sometimes, for some weird reasons,
the document request is long.
So there we go we get a pretty
quick document request or
where's my, way it's kind of hard
to show overview, there we go,
I just want the first little bit here,
just that stuff.
Okay, so
that document request is pretty quick and
then we start fetching all of the CSS and
JavaScript and stuff.
And then finally,
when the JavaScript hydrates,
we can make this network request, that
is the long network request right there.
Hold on, that's the socket, where's
where's our network's request for stuff?
There it is.
So this is a request that gets us
the customer details and invoice details,
all that stuff that's really slow.
So this request, yeah, that's right.
Sometimes Chrome the network tab will
show pull these off of each other.
But yes, it wasn't the socket,
the socket is still pending.
It's this request that's
like super duper long.
So the key thing here that I want you
to take away from is when this request
starts, right?
That is the point of all of this.
The request starts after
the latest JavaScript thing.
As soon as that last
JavaScript thing finishes and
we run all that JavaScript and
we hydrate the app.
Now I can start the request as not great,
I don't want that,
it would be cooler if
their request started.
I don't know with the document,
like it does when we're using our loaders.
That's one of the reasons why remix is so
fast.
It's because all of the, requests for data
start as soon as the documents requested,
not after the documents done,
as soon as it's requested, and
so we're missing out on that.
[LAUGH] That's gonna be hard am sure
as soon as that JavaScript loads and
now we can finally start requesting this.
Would be really cool if we could
start this request earlier,
that's what the defer API that
you're about to use enables.
So let's move this over,
but still not wait for it,
we call it promise teleportation,
it's pretty cool.
We live with a promise on the server and
then on the client we still have
that promise, it's not the same
promise cuz that's like impossible.
But it feels like Get,
and it's really cool, so
that's what you're gonna be doing
is solving that specific problem.
And yeah, I describe that in
the background here I'll give you
an example of what these APIs look like.
And yeah, I have so
many things to say about this,
but I'll talk about it after
our exercise is finished.
So you're going to be implementing
the defer suspense and
await API's on that customer ID route
to make this feel really great.
I mean, as great as you can make it
because you can't speed up the back
end, okay?